# Hotel Bookings ML
### During the first UK Coronavirus lockdown, I had undertaken the Python for Data Science course on edX sponsored by UCSanDiego. It was lead by Illkay Altintas and Leo Porter of that same institution. The whole course took 11 weeks to continue, and this repisatory was used as the final project for that course, encapsulating all my skills
#### I had completed the project as during the national lockdown, the end of my first university year automatically ended and we were allowed to pass freely onto the second year. Having more than 5 months free, I wanted that time to finally pursue my interest in data science and allowing to develop my already advanced skills with python greatly helped me in the long term.
#### During the course we used Anaconda with Python 3.7 as well as Jupyter Notebooks. This was supported with a plethora of visualisation packages such as matplotlib, plotly or seaborn to name a few. HAving background in Python and C# I didn't have too many difficulties following the content, though I had learnt a great deal about new technologies and was inspired to continue in the direction of Python programming and Data Science.
#### Initially, I was planning on using some of the data provided in the past for a simple algorithm that would've allowed me to quickly move on. However, after stumbling on the hotel booking demand data set, I wanted to challenge myself and find a way to predict at what point a booking would be cancelled based on time leading up to the booking and the price in question.
#### All of the data was supplied via [Kaggle, by Jessie Mostipak](https://www.kaggle.com/jessemostipak/hotel-booking-demand)
#### The main obstacles that arouse were mainly around my skill level. HAving used a random forrest algorithm I had to learn a lot of new and different ways of programming. I spent a lot of my time during and leading up to the completion of the project studying books like [Deep Learning with Python by François Chollet](https://www.manning.com/books/deep-learning-with-python) or [Machine Learning with Python Cookbook by Chris Albon](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/machine-learning-with/9781491989371/)
#### Overall the project took 3 weeks, but most of the work seen in the repository was completed in the last week of work.
#### I would definitely like to revisit the project in the future and work on improving the accuracy of the model, I would also like to see if some of the new data science technologies such as gender bias, with comparably strong new datasets, could change the final results I received.
